---
title: v1 Release
description: Release v1 is here, learn what new features are available and how to migrate.
navigation: false
---

## Background

When building the original version of the package, there was a lot of added complexity that was created
as part of a fundamental flaw in how the core was built

This complexity caused issues with reactivity and offered little room to support type and runtime mocking.

Breaking changes have been implemented where required to simplify the package.

## 🚀 Features

### 🌲 0kb Runtime

The package now supports mocking out runtime define functions and components for client-side builds.

- **Ships ~30kb less of JavaScript to the client**

This is enabled by default for environments using SSR. See the `client` [User Config](/guide/guides/user-config) for more details.

### 🇹 Enhanced Types

Types for define functions are now runtime, supporting switching the types being used.

- **Supports schema-dts**

You can opt-in to "full" mode which augments the types to use [schema-dts](https://github.com/google/schema-dts).
See the `full` [User Config](/guide/guides/user-config) for more details.


### 💪 New Core

The core was rebuilt and is now available as its own package: [schema-org-graph-js](https://github.com/harlan-zw/schema-org-graph-js).

- More stable reactivity
- Runtime overrides of user config

### Others

- Schema.org script is embedded to the end of the `body`
- New Schema.org: `Course`, `Event`, `Book`, `SoftwareApp`, etc
- Webpack support
- Docs are now powered by Docus

## Migration Guide

### High Risk - Breaking Changes

#### Partial define functions removed

To allow for empty define functions while providing a strict API, the `define${Node}Partial` functions existed. This has been removed to simplify the API. 

You will need to remove any define partial functions in favour of the main define functions.

::code-group

```ts [Before - v0]
defineWebPagePartial({
  // ...
})
```

```ts [Current - v1]
defineWebPage({
  // ...
})
```

::

#### Component prop `render-scoped-slots` removed

Previously you were able to provide the `render-scoped-slots` prop to allow scoped slots to render. This was useful
to minimise code, but was removed as the functionality was misleading.

You will now need to render within the default slot.

::code-group

```vue {3} [Before - v0]
<template>
  <SchemaOrgQuestion render-scoped-slots>
    <template #question>
    What is the question?
    </template>
    <template #answer>
    Not sure
    </template>
  </SchemaOrgQuestion>
</template>
```

```vue  [Current - v1]
<template>
  <SchemaOrgQuestion>
    <template #question>
    What is the question?
    </template>
    <template #answer>
    Not sure
    </template>
    <div>
      <div class="font-bold mb-3 text-xl">What is the question?</div>
      <div>Not sure</div>
    </div>
  </SchemaOrgQuestion>
</template>
```
::

#### SchemaOrgInspector renamed to SchemaOrgDebug

::code-group

```vue {3} [Before - v0]
<template>
  <SchemaOrgInspector />
</template>
```

```vue  [Current - v1]
<template>
  <SchemaOrgDebug />
</template>
```
::

## Next Steps

Once you have finished migrating, it's worth re-testing your Schema.org using https://validator.schema.org/ and https://search.google.com/test/rich-results.

If you see any issues please [create an issue](https://github.com/vueuse/schema-org/issues/new). 
